**MIMO**

*Benefits*
>- MIMO can provide additional diversity against fading on the radio channel. When the channels experienced by the different antennas have low mutual correlation, MIMO could achieve spatial diversity via a sufficiently large inter-antenna distance, or polarization diversity via the use of different antenna polarization directions.
>- MIMO can also be used to “shape” the overall antenna beam to maximize the overall antenna gain in the direction of the target receiver/transmitter or to suppress specific dominant interfering signals. Such beam-forming can be based either on high or low fading correlation between the antennas.
>- The simultaneous availability of multiple antennas at the transmitter and the receiver can be used to exploit spatial multiplexing, which is similar to create multiple parallel communication “channels” over the radio interface. This provides the possibility for very high bandwidth utilization without a corresponding reduction in power efficiency or, in other words, the possibility for very high data rates within a limited bandwidth without a disproportionately large degradation in terms of coverage.


##Coordinated Multi-point transmission/reception (CoMP)

The use of multiple transmit antennas for the downlink provides diversity and beam-forming without the need for additional receive antennas and corresponding additional receiver chains at the terminals.

For L TE-Advanced, the MIMO and CoMP technologies are seen as important technologies for meeting system performance requirements, including spectral efficiency (system capacity) and cell-edge user throughput. Increasing system capacity and user throughput will help to increase user data transmission speed and reduce per-bit system costs. Also, to maintain backward compatibility of the LTE-Advanced system with LTE Rel. 8, it is based on LTE Rel. 8 multiple access.

The implementation of intra-cell/inter-cell orthogonalization on the uplink and downlink in LTE Rel. 8 contributed to meeting the requirements of capacity and cell-edge user throughput. On the downlink, simultaneously connected UE are orthogonalized in the frequency domain. On the other hand, they are orthogonalized on the uplink, in the frequency domain as well as the code domain, using cyclic shift and block spreading. It is possible to apply fractional frequency reuse.


[Static Clustering for Cooperative Multi-Point (CoMP) in Mobile Communications (2011)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=5963458&navigation=1)
*This paper is mainly about how to cluster multiple pico-cell base stations together with macro-cell to provide small overhead and performance gain anticipated in the LTE-A of CoMP.*

Coordinated multi-point (CoMP) has been selected as a key technology feature of LTE-Advanced, as it enables the exploitation of inter-cell interference in order to significantly increase spectral efficiency, especially at the cell-edge.

Coordinated multi-point (CoMP) schemes based on multi-cell joint signal processing, where multiple base stations (BSs) jointly transmit to multiple user equipments (UEs) in the downlink, or jointly detect and decode multiple UEs in the uplink, were originally proposed in [1], [2]. Since then, a large extent of theoretical work has been done on the potential performance of such schemes in uplink and downlink, which has recently been complemented by field trial results [3], [4].

While these practical results appear very promising, the actual implementation processes have revealed various challenges connected to CoMP. For example, asymmetric signal propagation delays between cooperating BSs and cooperatively served UEs in the context of orthogonal frequency division multiplex (OFDM) can lead to inter-symbol interference (ISI), so that the set of possible CoMP scenarios is limited, or ISI cancelation has to be applied [5]. Further, downlink CoMP is strongly sensitive to inaccurately synchronized BSs, which may require expensive synchronization techniques [6]. Also, pilot and channel state information (CSI) feedback overhead [7] and backhaul requirements [8] connected to CoMP schemes can be highly problematic, and suggest an adaptive or ad-hoc usage of CoMP.


[Multi-Cell MIMO Cooperative Networks: A New Look at Interference (2010 survey paper)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=5594708&navigation=1)
**This paper is really nice served as survey and introductory paper, so it will be a separate thread**


[MIMO and CoMP in LTE-Advanced](https://www.nttdocomo.co.jp/english/binary/pdf/corporate/technology/rd/technical_journal/bn/vol12_2/vol12_2_020en.pdf)

There are two ways to implement CoMP technology: autonomous distributed control based on an independent eNode B configuration, or centralized control based on Remote Radio Equipment (RRE) (Figure 7) [17]. With an independent eNode B configuration, signaling over wired transmission paths is used between eNode B to coordinate among cells. Signaling over wired transmission paths can be done with a regular cell configuration, but signaling delay and overhead become issues, and ways to increase signaling speed or perform high-speed signaling via UE need study. With RRE configurations, multiple RREs are connected via an optical fiber carrying a baseband signal between cells and the central eNode B, which performs the baseband signal processing and control, so the radio resources between the cells can be con- trolled at the central eNode B. In other words, signaling delay and overhead between eNode B, which are issues in independent eNode B configurations, are small in this case, and control of high speed radio resources between cells is relatively easy. However, high- capacity optical fiber is required, and as the number of RRE increases, the processing load on the central eNode B increases, so there are limits on how this can be applied. For these reasons, it is important to use both distributed control based on independent eNode B configurations and centralized control based on RRE configurations as appropriate, and both are being studied in preparation for L TE-Advanced.

**Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission** can be divided into two categories: Coordinated Scheduling/ Coordinated Beamforming (CS/CB), and joint processing (Figure 8) [18][19]. With CS/CB, a given sub-frame is transmitted from one cell to a given UE, and coordinated beamforming and scheduling is done between cells to reduce the interference caused to other cells. On the other hand, *for joint processing, joint transmission by multiple cells to a given UE, in which they transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources, and dynamic cell selection, in which cells can be selected at any time in consideration of interference, are being studied*. For joint transmission, two methods are being studied: **non-coherent transmission**, which uses soft-combining reception of the OFDM signal; and **coherent transmission**, which does precoding between cells and uses in-phase combining at the receiver.


[Backhaul requirements for inter-site cooperation in heterogeneous LTE-Advanced networks (2013)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=6649363&navigation=1)
*In general, this is not a very good paper...*

The Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) denotes these schemes as coordinated multi-point (CoMP) [5]. Both for uplink joint detection (JD), and downlink joint transmission (JT), CoMP is studied also under realistic conditions [6, 7]. However, Long Term Evolution (LTE) Rel. 11 limits the use of CoMP to intra-site schemes [8]. In this way, extra traffic and additional delays in the backhaul are avoided. Moreover, synchronization is already available at the same site.

The important requirements for future mobile backhaul include significantly higher data rates, minimized delays and network-assisted synchronization. In order to minimize inter-cell interference, further evolution of the air interface is needed. **Adaptive intra- and inter-site cooperation, feedback compression, shorter delays** in the air interface and channel prediction are very useful. In this way, data rates in LTE-Advanced can be scaled up more than two orders of magnitude to meet the forecast mobile data traffic.

[**Multi-Cell MIMO Cooperative Networks: A New Look at Interference** (2010 survey paper)](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=5594708&navigation=1)

Several critical questions raised based on this paper:

1. *Which model of base station should I use?* As indicated in the *Section III-B)-1)*, the four common models listed from simple to complex are: **Gaussian Wyner model, Gaussian soft-handoff model, Fading Wyner model, and Fading soft-handoff model**.
2. *Which part should I investigate first, uplink or downlink?* Both links are complicated enough for one conference/journal paper, but the question is which one is better off to start with. (ask prof.)
3. *Which assumptions should be included in the research?*
  - unlimited backhaul links
  - limited-capacity and/or limited-connectivity backhaul links
  - fading channel
  - the interplay of MCP with relaying (might not)
4. *Determine the matrix of merits*
  - per-cell sum rate (from info. theory)
  - user-dependent pass loss
  - balancing of users' QoS from cell center to edge
5. **The topic of the paper**:
  - Info. theoretically analysis (sum rate capacity)
    - uplink OR downlink
    - unlimited OR limited backhaul links
    - effect of fading channel
  - Optimizations of transmission:
    - coordinated power control
    - coordinated beamforming (transmit & receive)
    - coordinated interference mitigation
  - Issues with scalability
    - impact of channel uncertainty
    - distributed (de)coding for up- or down-link
    - limited cooperation via clustering
  - Issues with implementation
    - synchronization
    - channel estimation
    - cooperative ZF precoding and MMSE detection


In dense networks where interference emerges as the key capacity-limiting factor, multi-cell cooperation can dramatically improve the system performance. Remarkably, such techniques literally exploit inter-cell interference by allowing the user data to be jointly processed by several interfering base stations, thus mimicking the benefits of a large virtual MIMO array.

Cooperation among the BSs has been shown to increase the sum rate capacity of the network by an amount proportional to the inter-cell interference span (i.e. number of BSs interfered by a local transmission) with respect to standard single-cell strategies with spatial reuse. While **initial work** demonstrated such benefits under **idealistic conditions**, in terms of, e.g., absence of fading and perfect backhaul, **more recent research** has confirmed the promises of MCP under more **practical conditions**.

The nature of cooperation (interference coordination or MCP) determines the suitable strategies in various cases. Some of these strategies are straightforward extensions of traditional MIMO signaling techniques, while many others require novel and nontrivial ideas.

Current cellular networks typically connect base transceiver stations (BTS’s) to base station controllers (BSC’s), and in some implementations the BSC handles the base-band signal processing and encoding/decoding [150]. It is therefore very natural to consider clustered models, in which the processing is done locally at the BSC, which is connected to the adjacent base stations. The collection of base stations served by a BSC forms a cluster, each cluster behaving as a network MIMO system, but now there is interference between adjacent clusters. In this case, there is not a single, centralized node, but many nodes, each independently encoding and decoding signals for the mobiles in the local cluster. The **advantages** of the clustered model are 1) relevance to currently implemented systems 2) reduced computational complexity 3) reduced demands on the back-haul network since only neighboring base stations (i.e. those which are mutually interfering the most) are engaged in cooperation, and 4) increased robustness to node failures (a base station can be served by more than one system controller). The **disadvantages** when compared with full network-wide cooperation are 1) increased levels of intercell interference in some areas (since adjacent clusters will interfere), 2) reduced diversity, and 3) lower capacity.

Unlike standard MIMO systems where the cost of multi-antenna processing lies in the extra hard- ware and software at individual devices, cooperative MIMO techniques do not necessarily require extra antennas. Rather, the cost lies in the additional exchange of information (user data and channel state) between the devices engaged in the cooperation, or between the devices and the central controller in a centralized architecture. Furthermore, the information exchange is subject to tight delay constraints which are difficult to meet over a large network. MIMO-cooperation offers additional benefits over simpler beamforming coordination schemes, but it requires user data sharing among several BSs and more complex precoding and decoding.

##Cellular localization

[Improving Positioning in LTE through Collaboration (2014)](http://buehrer.ece.vt.edu/papers/WPNC.2014.LTE.pdf)

Many applications, such as location-based services and Enhanced 911 (E911), require that the locations of users in a cellular system are available. The global navigation satellite system (GNSS) is the most accessible positioning systems which are widely used in cellphones. However, poor operation in indoor and dense environments leads us to use cellular localization as a backup solution. In cellular localization, the locations of users are determined via measurements obtained within the network without aid of any external sources (e.g., GNSS). Observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA) is a positioning technique introduced in Release 9 of the 3GPP LTE specification. In OTDOA technique, the User Equipment (UE) measures the time difference of signals between several eNodeBs (base stations in LTE) and uses a trilateration algorithm to find its location. In the current 3GPP LTE specification, the UE can only collect measurements from eNodeBs. Therefore, in many situations, the UE is not able to communicate to a sufficient number of eNodeBs and cannot find its location without ambiguity.

###Based on LTE-A (Rel. 13)

User Location Information (ULI) is the important service in current mobile telecommunication services, e.g. emergency situation, charging, lawful interception or commercial push service, etc. However, some network may choose not to deploy the LCS function, so if the core network wants to know the location information for certain UE, it has to initiate the location reporting procedure to request the RAN to report where is the UE currently located. The current location reporting procedure has the following limitations:

In LTE: 

- it only reports the users’ location change when they are in the ECM-CONNECTED state;
- in the location change reporting, it considers the ECGI/TAI and/or CSG information changes.

In UTRAN: 

- it only reports the users’ location change when they are in the PMM-CONNECTED state;
- the location reporting granularity is based on the service area, which is too coarse.

In general, it has the following drawbacks which may have to be enhanced:

- the location reporting granularity for UTRAN can be as fine as LTE at the cell level. Although the cell sizes for different RATs and areas may not be the same, the cell level is still a more suitable granularity for easy definition and achievement under current situation;
- the location reporting function  can’t be controlled flexibly by the network, such as the location reporting time;
- tailored location reporting needs to be further analysed. The network may only want to know the users with certain common characteristics not all the users in the area.

As a result, there is a need to improve and enhance the existing user location reporting capability, so that it can realize the flexible location reporting policy and does not cause much signalling load to the network. 
The study will identify what use cases that are needed to be fulfilled. Besides, it will also analyse the impacts in scenarios to the network.

*Objective*:  to provide details about the possible scenarios and use cases where there is a need of enhanced user location reporting. This study also aims to identify potential new requirements to fulfil the use cases and the potential interactions with existing location reporting procedures.

The service requirements will include the following aspects:

- Enhancement to location reporting granularity for UTRAN
- Support for flexible and controllable location reporting policy(e.g. restrict location reporting to chosen times during the day);
- Consideration on tailored location reporting (e.g. to report the number of users with certain common characteristics in the area).
